W-17653013 Update telemetry-exporter.adoc (#338)
mulesoft/docs-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/telemetry-exporter.adoc

= Exporting Telemetry Data to Third-Party Monitoring Systems
:page-info-pills: anypoint-pricing-titanium

> The Telemetry Exporter enables you to export xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[_audit logs_] and trace data from your apps to third-party observability and analytics platforms, such as Azure Monitor, Splunk HEC, and OpenTelemetry compliant tools. Exporting trace data is supported only for apps deployed using compatible versions of CloudHub 2.0 and Runtime Fabric. 

Author: @jigarkb Which types of apps are we talking about here? connected, Mule, etc.? Thx!

Reviewer: Mule apps

> The Telemetry Exporter enables you to export xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[_audit logs_] and trace data from your apps to third-party observability and analytics platforms, such as Azure Monitor, Splunk HEC, and OpenTelemetry compliant tools. Exporting trace data is supported only for apps deployed using compatible versions of CloudHub 2.0 and Runtime Fabric. 

Author: ```suggestion
The Telemetry Exporter enables you to export xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[_audit logs_] and Mule application trace data to third-party observability and analytics platforms, such as Azure Monitor, Splunk HEC, and OpenTelemetry compliant tools. Exporting trace data is supported only for apps deployed using compatible versions of CloudHub 2.0 and Runtime Fabric. 
```

> The Telemetry Exporter enables you to export xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[_audit logs_] and Mule application trace data to third-party observability and analytics platforms, such as Azure Monitor, Splunk HEC, and OpenTelemetry compliant tools. Exporting trace data is supported only for apps deployed using compatible versions of CloudHub 2.0 and Runtime Fabric. 

Author: ```suggestion
The Telemetry Exporter enables you to export xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[_audit logs_] and Mule application trace data to third-party observability and analytics platforms, such as Azure Monitor, Splunk HEC, and OpenTelemetry compliant tools. Exporting trace data is supported only for Mule apps deployed using compatible versions of CloudHub 2.0 and Runtime Fabric. 
```

> The Telemetry Exporter enables you to export xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[_audit logs_] and Mule application trace data to third-party observability and analytics platforms, such as Azure Monitor, Splunk HEC, and OpenTelemetry compliant tools. Exporting trace data is supported only for Mule apps deployed using compatible versions of CloudHub 2.0 and Runtime Fabric. 

Author: ```suggestion
The Telemetry Exporter enables you to export xref:access-management::audit-logging.adoc[_audit logs_] and Mule app trace data to third-party observability and analytics platforms, such as Azure Monitor, Splunk HEC, and OpenTelemetry compliant tools. Exporting trace data is supported only for Mule apps deployed using compatible versions of CloudHub 2.0 and Runtime Fabric. 
```

// add a link when trace overview become available

To use the Telemetry Exporter, you must: 

> * Create a connection with a third-party observability platform that authorizes Anypoint Platform to share data with the platform. See also, <<third-party-support>>.

Reviewer: this statement is kind of confusing. how about:
```Create a connection by providing third-party observability platform credential that authorize Anypoint Platform to share data with the observability platform. ```

> * Create a connection with a third-party observability platform that authorizes Anypoint Platform to share data with the platform. See also, <<third-party-support>>.

Author: ```suggestion
* Create a connection by providing a third-party observability platform credential that authorizes Anypoint Platform to share data with the observability platform. See also, <<third-party-support>>.
```

> * Create a configuration that specifies the type of data Anypoint Platform exports and which business group and environment allows content to be exported to connections.

Author: @jigarkb What do we mean by "to connections" here? Which connections are we talking about? And are we exporting _to_ a connection or through a connection that we created in monitoring.

Reviewer: Connection is a resource configured by customers in Anypoint Monitoring > Telemetry Exporter section. That's what we mean here. 

You can create a Configurations (again a resource configured by customers) to send data to those connections.

Author: ```suggestion
* Create a configuration that specifies the type of data Anypoint Platform exports and which business group and environment allows content to be exported to the connections that you configure.
```

> * Create a configuration for your app that specifies the type of data Anypoint Platform exports and which business group and environment allows content to be exported from your app.

Author: ```suggestion
* Create a configuration that specifies the type of data Anypoint Platform exports and which business group and environment allows content to be exported to connections.
```

You can also edit and delete connections and configurations. 
include::partial$telemetry-exporter-notes.adoc[tag=hourDelay]

include::partial$telemetry-exporter-notes.adoc[tag=auditLogDuplicates]

[[third-party-support]]
== Supported Third-Party Monitoring Products

> The Telemetry Exporter enables you to create connections with most third-party observability and analytics platforms that:

Author: ```suggestion
The Telemetry Exporter enables you to create connections to most third-party observability and analytics platforms that:
```

> * Have OpenTelemetry-supported endpoints. For example, the endpoint URL for New Relic is `https://otlp.nr-data.net:4318`. Your team must set up endpoints for the monitoring platform you are using.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Have OpenTelemetry-supported endpoints. For example, the endpoint URL for New Relic is `https://otlp.nr-data.net:4318`. Your team must set up endpoints for the monitoring platform you use.
```

//include::reuse::partial$billing/pricing.adoc[tag=prereqBullet] - Removing for now. Including as plain text. 
//retain refs to Advanced and Titanium
* The Anypoint Integration Advanced package or a Titanium subscription to Anypoint Platform. 
* Telemetry Exporter Administrator permission, so you can create or modify connections. For more information, see xref:am-permissions.adoc[].
* Telemetry Exporter Configurations Manager permission, so you can create or modify configurations. For more information, see xref:am-permissions.adoc[].

> * Access information for your third-party observability platform, including the endpoint that supports OpenTelemetry.

Author: ```suggestion
* Access information for your third-party observability platform.
```

. Click *New Connection*.
. On the *Connection Details* page, enter the following information: 
* *Connection Name*: Name for your connection, using only alphanumeric characters and hyphens.
* *Destination Type*: Third-party observability platform to which you want to transfer data. 

> * *Endpoint URL*: Endpoint that enables external connections to your third-party observability platform (see <<third-party-support>>). The location of this endpoint depends on your platform. 

Author: ```suggestion
* *Endpoint URL*: Endpoint that enables external connections to your third-party observability platform (see <<third-party-support>>). Some platforms, such as DataDog, require an OpenTelemetry collector endpoint that is enabled to translate the OpenTelemetry standard to DataDog formats.
```

> * *Endpoint URL*: Endpoint supporting OpenTelemetry that enables external connections to your third-party observability platform (see <<third-party-support>>). The location of this endpoint depends on your platform. 

Author: ```suggestion
* *Endpoint URL*: Endpoint that enables external connections to your third-party observability platform (see <<third-party-support>>). The location of this endpoint depends on your platform. 
```

A warning appears that confirms whether you want to delete the configuration. 
. Click *Delete Configuration*. 

== Errors

> If you receive this error, ensure that you endpoint supports OpenTelemetry:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you receive this error, ensure that your endpoint supports OpenTelemetry:  
```
